# Onebox challenge REST API

Spring Boot Server

## Overview
This server was generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project.
By using the [OpenAPI-Spec](https://openapis.org), you can easily generate a server stub.

The technology used to develop this REST API is Spring Boot version 3.2.2. An in-memory database has been used
to store the carts of the clients. Best practices are employed to ensure code maintainability, as well as the separation between DTO and DAO, the definition of ControllerAdvice to avoid code repetition when handling exceptions, and the definition of a database access interface decoupled from the current implementation,
meaning that it will be very easy to couple the application with a new database such as Postgresql with the Spring-Jpa libraries.

The DTO classes have been defined through the openapi-maven-plugin generator with an openapi contract that can be read in the project. On the other hand, the only handled error responses are the Not Found and Internal Server error. The former will appear when
the user asks for a cart that doesn´t exist. The latter will occur, for example, when the database is not available. As the current implementation is in-memory, it won't happen, but it can occur in future releases of the application. Notice that, as the application is thought to be tested with Swagger with all the parameters in each request, the Bad Request response isn't implemented, meaning that such error will be a 500 instead. It has a very easy solution: To handle more exceptions in the class annotated with @ControllerAdvice, such as : MissingPathVariableException, MethodArgumentNotValidException... 


The underlying library integrating OpenAPI to Spring Boot is [springdoc](https://springdoc.org).
Springdoc will generate an OpenAPI v3 specification based on the generated Controller and Model classes.

To run the application you need to build an image through the commands below:

```
cd ./OneBoxChallengeApi;
docker build -t onebox-api:1.0.0 ;
docker run onebox-api:1.0.0 -p 8080:8080;
```
Integration tests for all the functionalities are included in the application and are executed during the build of the project (the project is built when you execute docker run). It can be checked in the logs, before the application starts.

Once it's running, the specification is available to download using the following url:
http://localhost:8080/v3/api-docs/

The application starts the server as a simple java application

You can view the api documentation in swagger-ui by pointing to

http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html

and test the endpoints.

I hope you like it :)

If you have any doubts about the implementation, don't hesitate and reach me out: ddcg98@gmail.com
